---
title: Setting Up
date: 2016-09-06 15:30:00
template: post.html
---

First week of fourth year means the start of the Honours project. I've thought
about my topic before and done some quick preliminary research, but I now have
to define my project properly, and start documenting the process, which is what
that blog is for.

## Project Ideas

I'm doing a computer science degree, and I want to go into the space industry
after university. From there, I had written down a few project ideas over the
summer:

* *Capsule Entry Guidance*: investigate and write guidance software to steer
  a spacecraft from the moment it enters the atmosphere to the moment it deploys
  its parachutes (running in a simulation for obvious cost reasons!). The goal
  would be to bring the spacecraft within a reasonable target ellipse at
  around 10km altitude.

* *Spacecraft Terminal Guidance*: same idea as above, but later in the EDL
  (Entry-Descent-Landing) sequence. The software would guide the spacecraft
  from the end of entry to touchdown, probably using gimballed engines and
  throttle control.

* *Planetary Reconnaissance*: inspired by NASA's plans to have a [drone][drone]
  do terrain reconnaissance on the [Mars 2020][mars2020] rover. The idea would
  be to do systems and mission design for small, low-cost rockets that could be
  launched from a lander or rover. Once at apogee, the payload falls under a
  parachute  and could beam "bird's eye view" images and data to the rover.

* *Long-Range Communications*: design the communication systems and software for
  low-budget, low-power payloads, like High-Altitude Balloons and NanoSats. This
  would involve investigating existing systems, implement (and potentially 
  design) the protocol used to transmit data over long distance and create the
  software needed at both ends of the transmission (payload and ground station).

## Down-Select

After a meeting with my lecturer, we're leaning towards radio communications.
while the other projects were interesting, this one will allow me to work with
actual hardware, which I have never really done before. Plus, I have barely ever
worked with radio and raw packet communications before, whereas I have done
physics simulations and basic control loops in the past.

## Going Forward

My plan for the next week or so (at least until the first scoping workshop) is
to start researching similar projects and communication standards used in the
industry to try and narrow down the subject.

  [drone]: http://www.popsci.com/nasa-to-test-drone-scout-for-mars-2020-rover
  [mars2020]: http://mars.nasa.gov/mars2020/
